MTM-58141: rewrite, correct and add detail on acks and de-duplication (#2064)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/reference/notifications-bundle/consumer-protocol.md

There is a timeout of 5 minutes set on idle WebSocket connections after which the connection will be closed by the server side. Therefore the consumer must be prepared to handle closed connections which is required for fault tolerant operation in any case. All consuming microservices or applications should handle the WebSocket being closed and re-connect as necessary.

<a name="notification-acknowledgements">&nbsp;</a>
### Notification acknowledgements
The WebSocket service sends a sequence of UTF-8 encoded textual notification messages to the consumer.
Each notification message includes headers and a data payload.
Headers occur first in the message and are separated by new line characters. The data payload is last in the message,

> separated from the last header by 2 new line characters (one blank line occurs between the last header and the payload).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
separated from the last header by 2 new line characters, showing one blank line between the last header and the payload.
```

The first header in the message is always the acknowledgement header. 

> When the client has _finished_ processing a notification message,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the client has finished processing a notification message,
```

> it _must_ send that message's acknowledgement header back to the server on the same connection the message was received on. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it must send that message's acknowledgement header back to the server on the same connection the message was received on. 
```

> Sending the acknowledgement tells the server that the consumer has successfully received _and processed_ that message, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sending the acknowledgement tells the server that the consumer has successfully received and processed that message, 
```

allowing the server to forget the message.

> Each acknowledgement is unique to a particular notification and consumer. Batch and cumulative acknowledgements are _not_ supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each acknowledgement is unique to a particular notification and consumer. Note that batch and cumulative acknowledgements are not supported.
```

> If too many of a consumer's notifications (1000  by default) remain unacknowledged, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If too many of a consumer's notifications (1000 by default) remain unacknowledged, 
```

the flow of notification messages to that consumer will stop until some of its unacknowledged messages are acknowledged.
It is therefore best practise to process and acknowledge them quickly, to minimise the potential for a connection interruption causing a need to redeliver them.
An acknowledgement should not be sent until its notification has been successfully processed.
Otherwise, for example, if the client crashed during or before such processing,
the message may be lost as acknowledged messages are not (usually) resent by the server.

> The *hello-world-notification-microservice* example in the [cumulocity-examples repository](https://github.com/SoftwareAG/cumulocity-examples/tree/develop/hello-world-notification-microservice)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hello-world-notification-microservice example in the [cumulocity-examples repository](https://github.com/SoftwareAG/cumulocity-examples/tree/develop/hello-world-notification-microservice)
```

The header lines for a notification are as follows (separated by `\n` newlines):

* Required message identifier for message acknowledgement. This opaque value is an encoded binary 64 bit value. 

>   After the consumer has finished processing a notification, it _must_ send this header back to the server to [acknowledge the notification](../notifications/#notification-acknowledgements).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  After the consumer has finished processing a notification, it must send this header back to the server to [acknowledge the notification](../notifications/#notification-acknowledgements).
```

> * The [notification description](../notifications/#notification-description-header) on the second header line. This is a string describing what type of notification this is and its source. Measurements ("measurements"), events ("events") and alarms ("alarms") are examples of notifications, as are inventory creates, updates and deletes ("managedObjects"). There is a direct correspondence with realtime notifications which features similar notification descriptions. These are not enumerated here and are expected to increase in number in the future. For REST API notifications, they follow a 3 part format, separated by "/". More details on notification descriptions is given below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The [notification description](../notifications/#notification-description-header) on the second header line. This is a string describing what type of notification this is and its source. Measurements ("measurements"), events ("events") and alarms ("alarms") are examples of notifications, as are inventory creates, updates and deletes ("managedObjects"). There is a direct correspondence with realtime notifications which features similar notification descriptions. These are not enumerated here and are expected to increase in number in the future. For REST API notifications, they follow a three-part format, separated by "/". For more details on notification descriptions see [Notification description header](#notification-description-header) .
```

> * The [notification description](../notifications/#notification-description-header) on the second header line. This is a string describing what type of notification this is and its source. Measurements ("measurements"), events ("events") and alarms ("alarms") are examples of notifications, as are inventory creates, updates and deletes ("managedObjects"). There is a direct correspondence with realtime notifications which features similar notification descriptions. These are not enumerated here and are expected to increase in number in the future. For REST API notifications, they follow a three-part format, separated by "/". For more details on notification descriptions see [Notification description header](#notification-description-header) .

Author: ```suggestion
* The [notification description](../notifications/#notification-description-header) on the second header line. This is a string describing what type of notification this is and its source. Measurements ("measurements"), events ("events") and alarms ("alarms") are examples of notifications, as are inventory creates, updates and deletes ("managedObjects"). There is a direct correspondence with realtime notifications which features similar notification descriptions. These are not enumerated here and are expected to increase in number in the future. For REST API notifications, they follow a three-part format, separated by "/". For more details on notification descriptions see [Notification description header](#notification-description-header) .
```

* sourceId - the identifier of the "source" object that generated or is the subject of the notification. Source is a very loose term here, much as in "event sourcing" but generally indicates which managed object the notification is about.

Some examples are provided in [Traces](#traces) and backwards compatibility to real-time notifications is provided for.

### Dealing with notification duplication
When a WebSocket connection is lost, whether that is due to deliberate connection closure or connection failure,
messages that were received but not successfully acknowledged before the connection loss are sent to the consumer again when it reconnects.
This can result in duplicate messages being received by the consumer. 
Those duplicates can sometimes include acknowledged messages as these may be on-the-wire from the consumer to the server when the connection is lost.

Notification messages do not contain any specific unique identifiers to aid in de-duplication. 
Therefore, any de-duplication of messages must be done by the consumer based upon the [notification description header](../notifications/#notification-description-header) and payload. 

> Note that the acknowledgement header is not guaranteed to be unique across consumer reconnections. Consumer reconnections can be involved when there are duplicates.

Reviewer 3: Nitpick (minor): I'm not quite sure what point this sentence is making.  Maybe we just need to say that the ack header is not unique across reconnections and therefore cannot be used for de-duplication?

Author: The most likely place to see duplicates is on re-connections - making using ack header for de-duplication a particularly bad approach (if they dupes could occur in session, the ack header could be used 100% of the time to de-dupe).

This has changed on review (was in brackets originally). Maybe it should said after a comma instead with fewer words. For example: 
_Note that the acknowledgement header is not guaranteed to be unique across consumer reconnections, which it when duplicates are most likely._

Author: Made the change I suggested

> Note: the acknowledgement header is _not_ guaranteed to be unique across consumer reconnections (and consumer reconnections may be involved when there is duplication).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the acknowledgement header is not guaranteed to be unique across consumer reconnections. Consumer reconnections can be involved when there are duplicates.
```

> Some events are easy to de-duplicate, such as inventory events where a unique source object is first CREATED and then DELETED. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some events are easy to de-duplicate, such as inventory events where a unique source object is first created and then deleted. 
```

It will often be possible to use the notification message headers to determine these cases.

> However, inventory UPDATES or logically sequenced events such as alarms and measurements will typically require application-specific understanding of the payload fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, inventory updates or logically sequenced events such as alarms and measurements will typically require application-specific understanding of the payload fields.
```

Ideally the payload would include a field specifically for that purpose. If it is not possible to include such a field in the payload,
then other existing fields will have to be used, maybe on a best effort basis.

A specific field in the payload would typically be a [UUID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier) or increasing sequence number. 
The latter may aid the efficiency of de-duplication by using ordering, 

> though the sequence numbers will be unrelated across publishers (typically IoT devices) when the messages are originated from more than one publisher. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
though the sequence numbers will be unrelated across publishers, typically IoT devices, when the messages are originated from more than one publisher. 
```

> Any messages received from the same publisher with a lower sequence number than the last one processed from that publisher can be quickly discarded 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any messages received from the same publisher with a lower sequence number than the last one processed from that publisher can be quickly discarded, 
```

> (assuming the sequence has not rolled over). It is also easier for a human to understand that the ordering is correct and all messages are present.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assuming the sequence has not rolled over. It is also easier for a human to understand that the ordering is correct and all messages are present.  
```

* tenantId - this the identifier for the tenant under which the notification was generated.
* type - the platform type of notification generated. For example, event, measurement, alarm or managed object.
* sourceId - the identifier of the "source" object that generated or is the subject of the notification. Source is a very loose term here, much as in "event sourcing" but generally indicates which managed object the notification is about.

Some examples are provided in [Traces](#traces) and backwards compatibility to real-time notifications is provided for.

### Dealing with notification duplication
When a WebSocket connection is lost, whether that is due to deliberate connection closure or connection failure,
messages that were received but not successfully acknowledged before the connection loss are sent to the consumer again when it reconnects.
This can result in duplicate messages being received by the consumer.
Additionally, message acknowledgement is handled in batches by the server - this means any messages in the current (partially acknowledged) batch

> will also be resent, even though they may have been successfully acknowledged.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if we should say so much about this duplication. From the current description, it looks like this is almost normal case and we should always implement de-duplication on the client side. 

Do you think it is really the case or maybe we should mention more explicitly that this may happen in very exceptional cases only?

Author: Changed now. I stopped telling them the real details of batching and acks (they have no visibility on batches anyway) in favor of something much more vague. I think we need to keep something on the possibility of resent ack'ed messages because it will be seen and customers might want explanations
